feat(connectors): move to Connector SDK 0.2 (#1255)
camunda/camunda-platform-docs: docs/guides/update-guide/connectors/010-to-020.md

---
id: 010-to-020
title: Update 0.1 to 0.2
description: "Review which adjustments must be made to migrate from Connector SDK 0.1.x to 0.2.0."
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

<span class="badge badge--primary">Intermediate</span>

The following sections explain which adjustments must be made to migrate from
[Connector SDK](/components/integration-framework/connectors/custom-built-connectors/connector-sdk.md)
0.1.x to 0.2.0.

:::caution

> Be aware that the update from 0.1 to 0.2 is not backward-compatible.

Reviewer: Personally, instead of writing this (which sounds scary and is not actionable for the user) I'd rather write:

```
Upgrading from 0.1 to 0.2 requires [manual migration steps](link to migration guide).
```

This includes all required details, a call to action and is easier on me (I rather look forward, than backwards).

Reviewer: Alternatively (but not my favorite) I'd highlight that 0.2 ships with BREAKING CHANGES rather than mentioning "backwards compatibility".

Breaking changes is the term I'm looking for as a developer to understand if I need to do something.

Author: ```suggestion
Be aware that the update from 0.1 to 0.2 requires manual migration steps as described below.
```

:::

## Connector runtime

With SDK version 0.2.0, we introduce the following structural changes:

- Input validation and secret replacement moves from writing imperative code to declaratively using annotations.

> - The Outbound aspect of APIs is more explicit. Classes have been move to more explicit packages and have been renamed.

Author: ```suggestion
- The Outbound aspect of APIs is more explicit. Classes have been moved to more explicit packages and have been renamed.
```

[pre-packaged runtime environment](/components/integration-framework/connectors/custom-built-connectors/connector-sdk.md#pre-packaged-runtime-environment)
that comes with the SDK does not fit your use case, you can create a custom runtime environment.

> In version 0.2.0 of the [job worker connector run-time](https://github.com/camunda/connector-sdk/tree/main/runtime-job-worker), the following changes are required:

Author: So far, we mostly link to other docs pages. I think it's easier to connect the dots, I think, i.e. "Did I do this? Ah yeah, this section of the docs I followed when I implemented my own runtime environment".
```suggestion
With version 0.2.0 of the [job worker runtime environment](/components/integration-framework/connectors/custom-built-connectors/connector-sdk.md#connector-job-handler), you need to make the following changes:
```

Author: Plus, can we add this to the 8.0 docs here as well?
And this needs to be adjusted in the `connector-sdk.md` as well in the section [Connector job handler](https://docs.camunda.io/docs/components/integration-framework/connectors/custom-built-connectors/connector-sdk/#connector-job-handler) (also both in next and 8.0)

Reviewer: How shall I add it to 8.0 as well? Plz help :see_no_evil:

Author: Fair enough. There are other changed files here in the PR that are located in `versioned-docs/version-8.0`, like the [SDK guide](https://github.com/camunda/camunda-platform-docs/pull/1255/files#diff-0a5a5fc9921d584ec150ba65d9d7b72dd1f2ba86bb91ed146fa39ff6e4c3fe78).

Reviewer: Will update. Thanks!

- Rename `io.camunda.connector.runtime.jobworker.ConnectorJobHandler` to `io.camunda.connector.runtime.jobworker.api.outbound.ConnectorJobHandler`

> - Removed `io.camunda.connector.runtime.jobworker.ConnectorConfig` (unused)

Author: I think we can simply remove this line altogether, we never suggested using this class anyways, it was just used in internally.
